As questions about hostages remain it appears
preparations for a ground offensive in gaza
are under way.
Let's take a closer look at gaza with retired
major Mike lions.
Appreciate you being here.
To start, we hear constantly about just how
tight it is in gaza for lack of a better term.
About 2 million people, an area about the
size of Chicago.
What complications does that bring for any
type of ground offensive?
>> Tremendous.
I think we're going to potentially see casualties
and civilian casualties like we haven't seen
since the second World War, just based on
what Israel has said.
They declared war here.
Are use the word like siege.
Siege from military perspective means flatten.
We're going to surround, choke off the supply.
I want to talk about the courageous CNN crew.
They're sitting right here.
And they're so close to that gaza border here.
What -- missile fire coming from on the other
side.
Hamas is still firing rockets
[6:26:34 AM]
Hamas is still firing rockets inside of Israel.
And so, the airframes you hear are Israel
forces on kind of stationed ready to go ready
to knock them out.
Just shows me they still have capacity.
They have not stopped with regard to attacks
Israel.
>> What are the biggest challenges for Israeli
forces?
If we do see the ground incursion, nic made
a very good point because he had years of
experience covering the region, that in his
estimation, they are not amassed enough at
this point for an imminent incursion, that's
his read on the ground.
When ever it may happen if it does what are
the challenges they face once they get inside
gaza.
>> It will take them a while to wound up.
It will take days in order of 300,000 reservists
mobilized.
What are their objectives?
Attack from different sides?
Going to come from this side here, cut off
hamas troops?
Obviously this is where the center of gravity
is here with regard to where the hamas troops
are.
I think Israel has to be very
[6:27:34 AM]
I think Israel has to be very concerned overall
about from a strategic perspective.
They have enemy here coming in this direction.
They have Hezbollah coming up from the north.
If they can mass troops in the west bank,
this is the problem trying to fight war on
three fronts.
That's why they call 300,000 troops up.
Once they go back to gaza, once they get into
this location here, it's going to be street
fighting, house to house and again large civilian
casualties.
>> We talk about the strikes that we have
seen over the course of the last several days.
There have been air strikes.
We have seen numerous strikes very specific
facilities, at least according to the idf
and what their targets are.
What do those tell you?
>> They're going after if you look at some
things.
These are mosques now.
They're taking everything off the table with
regard to collateral damage again.
Normally the military wouldn't attack these
kinds of targets.
They're saying they are clearly military targets.
And in this case they're leaving nothing behind.
You know, in the past they would be more discriminate
with regard they would go after, specific
[6:28:36 AM]
they would go after, specific things.
Here they are literally leveling all the kind
of targets they going after.
There's nothing left now.
>> Those are both mosques you're showing in
the before and after.
>> Yeah.
>> On Saturday, there was rockets fired from
Hezbollah southern Lebanon into Israel and
bit of a pause secretary blinken said and
yesterday seeing more.
Can you speak to the complication of trying
to fight Hezbollah in the north of Israel
while doing the rest?
>> Yeah.
That's really what Israel has to be concerned
about because they'll have to put troops to
the north here.
This is where they would come from here.
Also, it would introduce, we warned now, the
Syrian government says, look, if Hezbollah
decides to come in, they're good fighters.
They've been part of the Syrian civil war.
They have that kind of experience.
Opens up a front where Damascus becomes a
target in this area here.
I think Israel will be forced to put ground
troops up there.
What Israel's advantage here is shock effect.
They bring tanks, air power.
The problem is the enemy is not fighting that
kind of battle.
>> This isn't conventional.
>> Exactly.
[6:29:36 AM]
They prepared for a war that they didn't get.
>> What are Hezbollah's capabilities compared
to hamas?
>> Better.
Better, more, greater capability.
Again, still don't really have that shock
effect, but they're good fighters.
There's more of them.
Israel has to be concerned.
This now creates -- if they come in from E
north here, and the attackers are coming from
the